# Registration of thyroid lobes

Project done in order to be able to register US image of left and right lobe of the thyroid. Prior to this work is that we already have some segmentation mask.

# library used :

numpy \
scipy \
scikit-learn \
circle-fit (https://github.com/AlliedToasters/circle-fit) \
matplotlib \
trimesh (for smoothing mesh) \
scikit-image 

pandas (for saving algorithm results) \
seaborn (for visualization data results) \
polyscope (to generate visual of thyroids) \
nibabel (to load nifti images) \
pathlib (to handle path) \
open3d (for a few functionnalities: merging two mesh, generate a mesh of a cylinder, not mandatory) 

# files description 

The main algorithm is in cylinder_detection.py : the main function is cylinder_detection that detect a cylinder on the surface of a mesh using prior information. 

main.py is an example of how to use the algorithm 

registration_and_analysis.py generate registration of all volunteer data, and store the results in a specified output file. Be carefull, because I'm computing the algorithm separately on each lobe, and on both lobes merged together (in order to compare my registration and some previous GT atlas) 

create_atlas_ICP.py was written to generate this GT atlas from an ICP algorithm an thyroid surface mesh. 

result_analysis.ipynb was used to analyze data generated by registration_and_analysis.py  


In functions.py are some usefull function for loading nifti files, as well as generating mesh with them. Few other transformation are coded here (in order to manipulate point cloud). At the end of the file are few functions used to generate an ICP atlas from MRI to US. These are not mandatory for other algorithm. 

# Specific parameters

Some parameters of the algorithm are not specified in a global way .... Here they are : 

In cylinder_dection.py : 

in cylinder_detection : 
  - localization_threshold (should be < 1.) : specify threshold of localization map in order to forget this point for detection of the cylinder direction

in ransac_fit : 
  - random_sample_tot : number of ransac circle test for each direction tested, 
  - ransac_treshold : treshold for specifing if a point is an inlier or not
  - rmin, rmax : min and max accepted radius for 3-point fitted circle
 

in ransac_loss:
  - mu, sigma : a prior is used to sepecify prior towards cylinder radius (cf normal dimention of trachea)

in detect_normals:
  - the averaging is detected within a distance (in parameters), a mean number of neighboors (in parameters), but for this mean
is used a sampling size of the original nifti image, which should be manually choosen in the code 

in ransac_fit:
  - slice_step is locally choosen (step between each slice of the thyroid along cylinder axis)
